[Rewrite] Wiki base structure (#52)
QuiltMC/developer-wiki: wiki/items/food.md

---
title: Adding food
index: 2
---
# Adding food

> This tutorial will assume that You have understood [Creating your first item](first-item)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will assume that you already understand [Creating your first item](first-item)
```

> An item can be made food by adding a `FoodComponent` to the Item Settings which you can create by using the Builder. Try reading the javadocs of the builderto understand whats going on here or continue reading for an explanation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a `FoodComponent` to an item's settings makes that item food. A `FoodComponent` can be created using a `FoodComponent.Bulder`. Try reading the inline documentation (javadocs) of the builder to understand whats going on here, or continue reading for an explanation:
```

```java

> public static final Item EXAMPLE_FOOD = new Item(new QuiltItemSettings().food(new FoodComponent.Builder()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public static final Item EXAMPLE_FOOD = new Item(new QuiltItemSettings().food(
    new FoodComponent.Builder()
```
put `new FoodComponent.Builder()` on a new line so it more easily be matched up with the list explanation below

>     .hunger(2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        .hunger(2)
```

> 	.saturationModifier(1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        .saturationModifier(1)
```

> 	.snack()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        .snack()
```

    .alwaysEdible()
    .meat()

> 	.statusEffect(new StatusEffectInstance(StatusEffects.NIGHT_VISION, 10), 0.8f)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        .statusEffect(new StatusEffectInstance(StatusEffects.NIGHT_VISION, 10), 0.8f)
```

    .build()));
```
Now that you tried using the javadocs *cough, cough*, here is an alternate explanation:

> - First, we instanciate a new builder. Using this, we can configure the `FoodComponent` before finally turning it into a proper `FoodComponent` using the build method. Note that all of the following values are by default 0, false or empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. we instantiate a new builder. Using this, we can configure the `FoodComponent` before finally turning it into a proper `FoodComponent`. Note that all of the following values are by default 0, false or empty.
```
use numbered list instead of 'first', 'then'...
moved `build` explanation to new final step to match actual order in code.

- Then we set the hunger to 2, which corresponds to one of the total 10 drumsticks in minecraft.

> - Then we set the saturation modifier, which, multiplied by the hunger value and 2, is added to the saturation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. we set the saturation modifier, which, multiplied by the hunger value and 2, is added to the saturation.
```

> - Next we make it a snack, which means that it gets eaten quickly, just like dried kelp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. we make it a snack, which means that it gets eaten quickly, just like dried kelp.
```

> - After that we make it always edible, just like suspicious stew.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. we make it always edible (even when hunger is full), just like suspicious stew.
```

> - Next we mark it as meat, so that wolves can eat it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. we mark it as meat, so that wolves can eat it.
```

> - Lastly we add a Night Vision status effect which will be applied for 10 seconds with a 80% chance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. we add a Night Vision status effect which will be applied for 10 seconds with a 80% chance.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0. finally, we create a proper `FoodComponent` from the builder using the `build` method.

```

## What's next?

> If you want to continue adding items, add [armor](armor) or [tools](tools)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to continue adding items, see [Armor](armor) or [Tools](tools).
```

index: 2
---
# Adding food

This tutorial will assume that you already understand [Creating your first item](first-item)

Adding a `FoodComponent` to an item's settings makes that item food. A `FoodComponent` can be created using a `FoodComponent.Bulder`. Try reading the inline documentation (Javadocs) of the builder to understand what's going on here, or continue reading for an explanation:

```java
public static final Item EXAMPLE_FOOD = new Item(new QuiltItemSettings().food(
	new FoodComponent.Builder()
		.hunger(2)
		.saturationModifier(1)
		.snack()
		.alwaysEdible()
		.meat()
		.statusEffect(new StatusEffectInstance(StatusEffects.NIGHT_VISION, 10), 0.8f)
		.build()
));
```

Now that you tried using the Javadocs *cough, cough*, here is an alternate explanation:

1. We instantiate a new builder. Using this, we can configure the `FoodComponent` before finally turning it into a proper `FoodComponent`. Note that all the following values are by default 0, false or empty.

> 2. We set the hunger to 2, which corresponds to one of the total 10 drumsticks in Minecraft.

Reviewer: Is there a reason to use the actual numbers here (after 1)?
It seems like it's just slightly more work to update should a new version ever add a new food component setting.

Author: Mainly because this way the markdown is also quite readable, so mostly personal preference. I didn't apply the changes directly because it broke somehow and started overriding stuff.
